>> Jen Kramer: So floats are one
of the original hacks for layout.
When I started back in 2000, started
laying out at web pages, we had tables and
that was how we laid out web pages.
Because we had nothing else,
floats came along shortly thereafter.
This was a much nicer way
of laying things out but
all floats wherever intended to do
was to float an image on a web page.
Make it go over to the left,
wrap the text around it really nicely,
kinda of like we are accustom
to seeing in print.
It was never really intended
to layout whole web pages but
we had nothing else, and
the markup was fairly clean.
Of course, table-based markup convey
something entirely different.
So floats were something that we
went ahead and took advantage of.
And we have taken advantage of now for
load these many years.
So remember that they are a hack for
layout.
Although, they are very cross-browser
compatible because they have been around
for really long time.
They have rows and cells right, so
if you think about your favorite
responsive design framework.
There is typically row, instead of
the row, there is a series of cells.
One row has nothing to do with
the next row in terms of layouts,
this is just typically
the way that it works.
The rows typically again, most of
the responsive design frameworks, the rows
are responsible for clearing the cells,
because if you float, you must clear.
If you float, you must clear.
Let's say one more time,
if you float, you must clear.
And I say that because many of
the problems that we encounter as we
layout web pages, and
we don't understand why something
happened is because you floated but
you didn't clear, okay?
So don't forget to clear when you float.
The source ordering is going to
determine the display on the page.
Now, so
it depends on what order your HTML is,
that's how things are going to
display on your web page with floats.
With a minor exception, it is possible
to reorder some of these things like
make the left column on a desktop
appear underneath the content.
Let's say on a mobile phone, but
this kind of rearrangement is
fairly limited, all right.
Fairly limited is to what we can do in
terms of rearranging things on screen.
Wait till you see what
we can do with grid.
Okay, one of the major disadvantages with
floats are equal column heights, right.
So we can have a wonderful row,
we can have a series of cells in it.
They're all different heights,
especially when we go from, say,
a desktop size to a tablet size and things
wrap around, we commonly run into issues.
So here's some diagrams of
what I'm talking about.
Here I've got a row, here is a series
of cells inside of that row.
Let's say that they are all
marked up in the following way.
Those of you who are standards
compliant people, yes,
I've just done this all with divs.
But if you notice, we don't exactly have
the most interesting content in the world,
so we don't need any semantics at all,
this is just done with divs.
So we have a row on the outside, we
have a series of columns inside of this.
And then typically, the way the code
is gonna look is something like this.
So we have some type of mechanism for
clearing a row.
Whatever formula it is that you like for
clearing a row, there it is.
That's my methodology.
You may have something else.
And then, for our column one here, we're
going to have code that looks like this.
And typically, it consist of, we're gonna
float an element off into your left.
We might give it some margins so
that we have space in between our cells.
And then of course, we have to give it
a width, otherwise we won't wind up with
things next to each other
as you go across the page.
So there's that formula right there.
If we wrap via a media query,
let's say, we have a range here for
this media query, we might change the
width of the column at this point in time.
And hopefully, these cells will stack
on top of each other, so very nicely,
all right?
Hopefully, and then when we go to mobile,
maybe these things stack on top of each
other as they go vertically down the page.
So we have a width, a margin and a float.
Maybe we turn the float off and
say float none.
And this, of course is just
displaying the HTML in source order.
Okay, here's the big problem with floats,
right there.
We wind up with a long one, a short two.
Three tries to reach around and
go underneath of one.
But unfortunately, one had blocks it so
it winds up over on the right side,
four wraps around.
It gets to be a mess
when we look at the page.
So then, we end up applying some
kind of JavaScript to this.
And there is approximately 5,
000 bazillion solutions to equal height
columns, JQuery based, not JQuery based,
all kinds of things that you can do to
make these columns kind of equal height so
that they wrap appropriately.
All right.
If we wanna rearrange the columns,
we write crazy code like this.
So we set our columns to
have a position of relative.
Relative positioning means that,
we are going to take our particular
element on the page, we can pull it out
of the normal flow by using our
properties of left, right, top or bottom.
But the space that that element
used to occupy is preserved,
as opposed to absolute positioning, where
we pull it out of the normal flow and
that space is collapsed.
So here what we're gonna do is we're
gonna push it over to the left or
in a positive or negative direction.
So that's what we have going
on here with this code.
Does anyone know in the very first
declaration on this with the square
brackets here?
Anyone know what kind of selector that is?
No one has any idea.
Okay, so
this is called an attribute selector.
This is one of the coolest selectors
I think is out there, all right,
it's called an attribute selector.
So rather than selecting your HTML tag,
right?
We're creating a class.
What we're doing is we're saying here, for
any HTML element with
the attribute of class.
>> Jen Kramer: Somewhere inside
of that attribute, that's the *=,
it can be at the beginning, at the end,
there's actually a number of these.
The operator here can be portrayed
in a number of different ways,
to beginning the string, to end the
string, to blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
There's a whole bunch of them,
you can look them up.
But this particular operator says,
anywhere within the string contain col-.
So the cool thing about that is that
selects all of our column one, column two,
column three, column four.
All of our various classes are now
affected by that one declaration.
Sweet, all right.
So attribute selectors.
By the way, my favorite trick
with attribute selectors,
if you say href="http: you can now tag
all of your links that go off site,
maybe with a little background image
that indicates it goes off site.
If you use that, http*=" .PDF,
you could stick a little PDF icon
after every link that has a PDF.
There you go, worth the price of
admission just for that, awesome.